felt heavier in my arms obviously
because it was heavier in my arms. So to
get a 310 now with a little bit in
reserve is is
actually that's what I would like.
Little bit nervous. Let's get
it. Let's get
it. Come on.
Are we on? Must. Okay. Deadlift day
today. It's uh early morning. It's not
that early. It's 9:00. I've been warming
up for about half an hour just on the
leg press. It's cold in Sydney. And
uh I went for dinner last night, didn't
have a amazing sleep, and we had to get
the session in kind of early. I say it's
early, it's not. It's 9:00. Like I wake
up at 5 and do all that. But I'm used to
training at about 11:00. So when it's
earlier like this, it's just a little
bit just jarring, especially in this
cold temperature. But it's okay because
all I'm going to do is one top set of
deadlifts. Maybe I'll do some quadricep
accessories and then we're going to go
to Perth for our seminar.
So, what is on the agenda today? This is
week four of my program. If you've been
following, I've reintroduced deadlifts,
heavy conventional deadlifts, um, with
very low volume approach so that it
doesn't interfere with my squat work.
And the goal was to go for a 310 kg
deadlift at the end of the phase. And I
know I've got the strength for it, but
whether I turn up on the day is another
story. So, week one, I did two sets of
one at 270 kg. That's my top work. And
then, you know, all my accessories is
squatting, back extensions, and and
lighter exercises. The next week up by
10 kg, 2x1 on 280. Next week, 2x1 on
290. This week, we're due for 2x one on
300. But I thought I don't want to do
2x1 on 300. Uh because I've done 300
about 4 weeks ago or 5 weeks ago. I
tested and just out of nowhere, I did
300. I thought that's interesting.
Anyhow, so the goal is 310. And that's
what we're going to do. One set of one
rep, 310. Uh, and then yeah, quad
accessories and we're
done. I'll do a few warm-up sets on 70
kilograms. Let's go. As always, we're
going to start with a little bit of a
rundown on the techniques that I like to
use. Why should you listen to me? Well,
I've coached someone who deadlifted 501
kg with a conventional deadlift in
strongman rules. That's HTO
Bjönson. And the techniques that I teach
him are the same techniques that I use,
same techniques that I teach my
daughter. So they're not advanced that
beginners and intermediate and every
level can't use. And I'm going to go
through all of the things that we
consider with the deadlift that works
for everybody. So of course Thor Bjönson
6'9 200 kg very different proportions to
us. The cues remain the same the way
they present from lifted to lift up.
There are differences and I'll go
through all of that today. So a few of
the things right now I've had a few
warm-up sets on the 70 kg. My shoulders
are feeling like I bench pressed
yesterday and they're feeling a little
bit tight, which is a strange thing. Why
do I want my shoulders to be mobile? One
of my favorite cues that I try and do is
reach down. So from here, so I don't
want to just hold the bar here. And a
big mistake that people make is they
shrug. They use their upper traps to
hold a big heavy weight. What you want
is your arms hanging. Reach down. Okay.
So reach down. That's lengthening the
arms and and also armpits to pelvis. So
it's it's kind of back as well.
down, back, and then hit combine that
with head to ceiling. Okay, but my my
shoulders feel a bit like they need a
little bit more warming up. Okay,
barbell over midoot stance, hip width,
and I like them straight. If they're a
little bit outwards, it's fine, but the
knees need to go in the same direction.
So, if you point them too far out, the
knees need to go out too far, which
means the arms need to go out too far.
So, just be mindful of that. I like
straight. Feet straight, barbell over
mid foot. Reach down.
Reach down, head to
ceiling. So, what I like to do, pick a
spot on the floor about 3 to 4 meters in
front. Everyone's different, but
typically I'd say that's a pretty gold
standard kind of cue. Pick a spot 3 to 4
m in front on the floor. So, don't look
straight down and don't look up kind of
here. And so, when we're starting, the
head's a little bit up, right? So, it's
not neutral spine. The head is a little
bit up and then when we lock out the
head is a little bit down. So it's
tucked chin. So we keep the eyes on that
same spot from start to finish. And it
looks like this. Reach. So barbell over
midoot. Feet hipwidth stance. Arms
straight down on the outside of our
legs. Reaching down. Big breath.
And that's our deadlift. My team, you
guys are my team. I'm going to just do
one plate, one plate, one plate, one
plate. So, red, red, red, red, red. So,
five reds and then one blue at the end.
That's 310. So, that is um you know,
pretty quick warm up by my standards for
sure.
However, I'm kind of warm. I did a whole
bunch of leg press, back extensions, so
I'm kind of warm. And I did I did three
sets on the or maybe even four sets on
70 kg. Now I want to put my my game face
on. Get focused like how I was on my 300
kg squat day. So I'm going to keep my
talking to a little bit of a minimum
right now.
And we're just going to get this single
in and out. So that's one set down, five
sets to go.
[Applause]
So it's too hard to gauge.
How am I feeling? actually pretty good.
I just did um 170 and I calculated that
I've only got 140 kg to add on. So, this
is why I don't know how that'll feel
when I get closer and closer. Like when
I get to my last warm-up set, which is
270, you know, I'll have a better
indication. But to be honest with you,
considering everything that I was saying
before that I'm tired and it's a cold
day and warm up is um feeling a little
bit hard, um it's feeling good now. So,
I feel good. I think that's a good sign.
How did that feel?
um felt heavier in my arms obviously
because it was heavier in my arms. Um
but then you know when I it's like okay
I'm holding on to more but then when I
stood up it was like the speed of that
felt pretty good. How good? I mean as
good as it needs to be on track for what
my goal is
today. So I feel like we're all
good. Yeah. Final red plate
and last warm
up. So, these are very aggressive
warm-ups, but with deadlifts, depends.
But if my head's in the right space, I
can do it. I can do these
warm-ups. Come on.
You think it'll be
easy? I'm glad you think so.
9 RP.
Look, I'll be honest with you. If it's a
9 RP, I'm going to be very happy. My
goal is to get to 330. So, I'm not
peaked. You know, I have been lifting
heavy this week. So, even though I said
I de loed, that's not how I would deload
for comp. I wouldn't be doing 270 kg
doubles the week of comp. But at the
same time, you know, it was a small kind
of de lo, but at the same time, I
wouldn't peak that
way. So, to get a 310 now with a little
bit in reserve is is
actually that's what I would like. I
don't think I'm at 330 level now. Um,
nor do I think I deserve to be at 330. I
think I deserve to be at the 310 level
now, right? It takes time. You know, I
only got 300 not long ago. I deserve to
be at 310 based on the work that I've
done. But, you know, humans aren't
linear. We don't progress linearly. Our
levels of energy don't progress
linearly. So
unpredictable, little bit nervous. Not
nervous
um for any other reason, but the fact
that if I miss this, I'm going to be
[__] pissed
off. That's why I'm nervous because I
don't want it to ruin my day.
This will be a nice, you know, end to
the week, a nice way to approach my
seminar and
say, "Yeah, I just did a 310 yesterday,
you know, not bad. Not bad for a skinny
guy." How many minutes rest? It's been 4
minutes now. I'm going to give
myself 8
minutes. Let's get it.
Let's get
it. Come
on. Come
on. Come on.
Yeah, we got
it. We got it. That's what we came for,
man. That's what we came for, man. He's
watching me the whole session. That's
why I got
it. Thank you, my homie. Thank you, my
homie. That was pretty
heavy. That was pretty heavy.
All
right, I'll tell you something
secret 310 is not my best. So it's like
this is the annoying part about like I I
stopped powerlifting competition in um 7
years ago 2018 you know co happened so I
was still like peing for competition
during co those comps never happened so
I was still training to be strong but I
haven't so since then
well since I've been 40 so I'm 43 now
since I've been 40 my best is 300
because I haven't really peaked you know
lost weight all those things right so so
Although it's kind of like a hollow
victory because I know I've done more
and I know 310 is never really for me in
my competition that I need to be in.
It's not at the standard that I need it
to be. But I need to take the wins as
they come and that is a win. This is the
most I've done in the last 3 years. It
gives me confidence to reach my next
goal which is 320. You know one step at
a time. So 320 I think I could do that
in a couple of phases time. Right. So,
how many phases? Maybe two. So, that's
eight weeks. But I'm not really going to
I probably won't retest my max in in
another four weeks. Now, the heavy
deadlifts are gone. And I'm going to go
back to heavy squats again and bring my
deadlifts back as accessory exercises
like stiff-legged deadlifts. That's a
really great one. Stifflegged deadlifts
combined with squats are very good for
building your conventional deadlift. You
know, conventional deadlifts, of course,
if you want to be really good at
conventional deadlifts, that's what you
got to do. But as a powerlifter, you
need to be good at all three. And you
know, everyone's different. There's a
lot of great deadlifterss out there who
might disagree with me, but my body is
built for bench press, short arms, uh,
also pretty, you know, well built for
squats. That's why I'm good at
squatting. And squats and deadlifts,
they interfere with each other, right?
So when you try and push both of them at
the same time, they clash. And that's
why it's the strategy. So my strategy
here was to back off my squats to a
degree. That's why I did like pause
squats instead. um so that I could focus
on doing it, you know, adding 10
kilograms to my deadlift in four weeks.
Like that's pretty good. And tick
checked off that box. Now it's back to,
you know, maintenance for the RDL's
maintenance with RDL's and stifflegged
deadlifts and back extensions and
hamstring work. And now next phase, I'm
going to build my squat back up again.
So I did a 300 kg squat last phase. So
perhaps the next phase is to build up to
a 310 kg squat, which would be lovely,
don't you think? You know, and then the
fact is, if I could squat 310 kg, what
do you think's going to happen to my
deadlift? Do you think it's just going
to get weaker? I don't think so.
Especially if I'm doing the only thing
that gets weaker if you don't train a
deadlift is your grip. You need to be
holding on to that weight. So, that's
the most I've held on to for a while.
Uh, and there was no problem. There was
no problem. So, if you just don't do
deadlifts and just do like back
extensions, good mornings and squats and
and exercises that target those exact
groups, you can still neglect your grip
strength and you'll let go of the
barbell. The grip will be the limiting
factor when you go back to heavy
deadlifts. So, that's why if you want to
use my strategy and take deadlifts out
of the equation so you can build your
squat, I still recommend doing some type
of a deadlift so you are familiar with
holding on to heavy barbells. Anyhow,
that's me. Uh, we're done. I'm going to
do some light stuff. So, maybe hamstring
curls, leg extensions, maybe some light
leg press, get a bit of a quadricep
pump. Nothing exciting. That's the end
of my session. Um, and it's off to
Perth. So, uh, I'm going to see you
guys. I don't know
when. Must is away. So, my
videographer's gone to Turkey for 18
days. Um, but I'm going to do my best to
have a few frequent videos for you guys
until he gets back. Uh, but either way,
thank you guys for joining me. I do read
all of the comments and I try as best as
I can to write back to them. So, if
there's anything that you want to see
moving forward, type it in the comments.
Anyhow, my team, thank you for joining
me with my 310 kg. It's a little bit of
a victory for me today, so I'm happy.
Have a great weekend, everybody. Speak
soon. Have time to analyze like the form
and everything. Just like a quick look.
Yeah. Yeah. You want to have a look at
my 310? Yeah. You want to see me
critique myself? Why don't we do that?
Why don't we do that? That's a good
idea. Okay. So, my objective is to
approach the bar the same way every
time. Okay. So, that starts like as dumb
as it sounds, the first thing that I do
is lean up against the wall. That's my
that that's my pre-lift ritual, right?
I'm not thinking about doing that. It's
just like I just don't want to change
now. You know, I kind of walk up to the
bar the same way. Those are my little
idiosyncrasies. They don't really
matter, but to me, they do. So, I start
up against the wall. Walk up to the bar.
So, my feet are hipwidth apart
uh and pretty close because if I go too
wide, the wider I go, the wider my grip
needs to be. And look at my arms.
They're not straight down. So, the most
efficient position is where the arms are
straight down. So, that's why hip width
stance is my preferred. Now, if your hip
structure doesn't allow that, then don't
just stand close because I said stand
close. Some people need to be a little
bit wider, especially if you got like
extra leg mass. heavy weights um or or
people that just have a hip structure
that doesn't like standing here. So, so
I never say that, you know, you have to
stand with your feet closed because this
is the golden rule. The arms need to be
straight down. Always factor in arms
straight down is the most efficient, but
hip and leg drive takes priority. So, if
you can stand hipwidth, if you need to
be a little bit wider for your comfort
and strength, then then do that. That's
totally fine. But still factor in the
wider your stance goes, the wider your
grip needs to be. The wider the grip is,
the further you must travel, which can
be seen as inefficient. Okay. So, so
that's what I did. Walked up to the bar
hipwidth stance from the top. So, I've
got my belt in my high belt position,
which I've explained to you. That's
comfortable for me. Maybe not for
everyone. Like Thor Bjönson has the belt
low. So, some people have it low and
they're very strong that way. And they
find So, Thor finds it uncomfortable up
here. He just does. And who am I to say
that he's wrong? He's not. It's
comfortable for him just like a high
belt position is comfortable for me. So
I I come in with my high belt position.
Uh the next thing is when do you take
your breath to brace? When I was fatter,
I had to take it at the bottom because
when I took it at the top, it my my
belly expanded so much and it interfered
with me being able to achieve the bottom
position. So, you know, sometimes for my
bigger lifters, I teach them to grab it
at the bottom and then and then take
their their breath, right, and expand
their midsection for their brace, right?
But for me, I'm taking it at the top.
And I I find that if your midsection is
smaller and Yeah, I find if your
midsection is smaller, take the brace at
the top. You'll be able to get a
stronger brace. So, sorry. When I say
brace, I mean breath hold right at the
top. And then I come down. As I come
down, I'm reaching down. Reaching
down. Grab the
bar. Big
breath. Reaching
down. Grab. Eyes three to four meters in
front. I pick the same spot on the
ground every single time, which is about
I don't know how many meters that is. 3
to four meters in front. So, my head is
slightly up from the beginning, but then
when I get to the top, it's slightly
tucked. Now, objectively, I'll tell you
where I messed up here. The bar drifted
away from my shins, which means my lats
could have been a little bit stronger,
but they weren't. Yeah, I felt it. I
felt it sway a little bit when it came
off the ground. And that's probably a
result of using bumper plates. And I
know people at home are going to say,
"Why'd you use bumper plates?" I just
do. All right. It's
comfortable, but now that it's getting
heavier like that, that's interfering.
It's making the barbell wobble. And that
just wobbled side to side. So when I
picked it up, I felt it go, which which
threw me off a little bit. Threw me off
a little
bit. But I will say from a technical
standpoint, I'm pretty happy with uh the
spine position that I maintain from
start to finish. So, you might see
people in competition using talcum
powder on their thighs. That makes the
barbell slide up easier so it doesn't
grip onto your thighs uh when you're
grinding out a max rep. And I had one of
my boys in here, Antonio, yesterday. He
bought some talcum powder and he said,
"Oh, you can use it for your deadlifts."
And I'm like, "Oh, I I don't really need
it." And he said, "Why?" And I said,
"Because my spine's pretty rigid." So,
if you have um a round back deadlift,
it's not a bad thing, but that's one of
the negatives. So, when you have more,
you know, flexion, especially in your
upper back, what can happen is you're
grinding up your thighs and it grips
onto your thighs. But when you have more
of a rigid torso, which is the
techniques that I teach, armpits, and
pelvis, and crown of the head to the
ceiling, my torso is rigid. It's not
sliding up my thighs in the same way.
So, just then there was no like there
was no sticking point. It was it was
hard the whole way through but there
wasn't a sticking point and it
definitely didn't slow down because it
was creating friction on my thighs. U it
kind of strong lockout because I have a
strong rigid back position. In my early
years I didn't I used to pick up the
barbell like a fishing rod and my
lockout was always really slow and
grindy and a lot of the times if I
missed a deadlift it was because of
that. It's because I'm being pulled out
of position off the floor. And then
here, it's like I've got to straighten
my back now. It's not about getting the
hips through. The hips are through, but
the back is round, right? So, I've spent
years of working on maintaining rigid
torso from the ground, which makes it
slower from the ground, but faster at
the lockout. If you have a round back,
it's fast off the ground. You'll rip it
off the floor and then you'll suffer at
the lockout. Which one's better or
worse? I believe I believe it's better
to work towards maintaining a rigid
torso and having you know a little bit
more of a fight from the ground and a
smoother lockout. The proof of that is
Hath Bjönson. That's something that he's
got very well down pad is his ability to
maintain a rigid torso. I'm not saying
it's neutral like there's a little bit
of round like it's slight rounding but
not a huge amount. He's not like a
fishing rod. He's like a crane. It's
fixed position and he's got a really
really strong lockout which is different
to how it used to be in his early years.
When he first when I first met him he
deadlifted 450 kg and he had higher hip
position. His legs weren't as strong. So
that's something that we worked on with
him is built his squat strength up to
460 kg and then he deadlifted 501.
Right? So now the difference between his
deadlift now that he's got a stronger
squat is his hips are lower. He's got a
rigid torso and he uses his leg drive
more now. He's less rounded in his back
and it's a very strong lockout. Very
strong lockout. Yeah. So, I think Yeah,
that's if I was to fault my deadlift, I
would say the bumper plates caused a
little bit of a sway. Um, which is also
what could have made the bar very
slightly drift
forward. Very slightly drift forward,
which is why I kind of have shin pads on
just to cue to to keep my bar like
grazing up against my shins, right? So,
if the shin pads aren't there and I'm
and I'm trying to learn that cue of
keeping the bar close. Sometimes it
smashes the shins. Some people are fine
with that. It doesn't hurt. That's fine.
But if you're bleeding on barbells, I
don't want your blood on my bar for one.
And two, this place is a pretty
unhygienic place. There's everyone's
hands go on here. They go and piss and
[__] and wipe their ass and come and
grab your barbells. Like these barbells,
I'll tell you now, there's a lot of
bacteria in this place. So, if you are
cutting yourself with these barbells,
uh, you know, it's pretty [__] gross.
Excuse my language. Anyhow, um I hope
you liked my breakdown of myself. My
critique was um next time when I come
for 320 kg, I'm going to use the
calibrated plates, the thinner
powerlifting ones, so that it's less bar
bend and less sway. Like I'm at that
point now where that's interfering with
my performance. That sway was a
negative. Um work towards keeping my
lats on tighter. So that's armpits to
the pelvis. work towards that happening.
And that's the problem with not
practicing heavy deadlifts is there is
no problem on the lighter weights, but
as it gets heavier, that's when it
pulled my upper back out of position. So
that's what I need to really factor in
on my lighter weights. Just really focus
on lats, lats, that cute armpits to
pelvis, crown of the head to the
ceiling, and push the world away.
Anyhow, that's me. Hope you like that
breakdown. Anything else? Out of 10. Out
of 10. um RP. No, that was a nine and a
half RP today. That was not a nine. That
was not an eight and a half. That was a
9 and a half. I think that if I had uh
315, it would have come up. Not much
more. Not much more. And it and 315
would have been really tough. That would
have been really tough. Uh, but apart
from that, the technique on
this, excellent.
Nah, nine. You know, no one's a 10. No
one's a 10. I give myself from a
technical standpoint, I give myself
about a nine. About a nine. These short
arms I have to bend. Like, you might
think my hips are quite high. Like,
there's other people that just look like
a 10 out of 10. Uh, you know, they're
more upright. Their their hips are lower
it seems, but typically they're like the
best deadlifterss in the world have
longer arms and shorter torsos. and
their start position is kind of here.
It's here. Like mine, I have to bend
down more because I got short arms,
great for bench pressing. But a lot of
people with longer arms, imagine I had
longer arms, that's where I would be. So
that's a much nicer looking start
position. Um, but for me and my
proportions, I think I think we did
pretty well, don't you think? Uh, if you
don't think I did well, leave it in the
comments. Let me know what you think I
can work on. I'm open to your
suggestions.
But if you like learning from me, um,
then you're welcome. I ask you for
nothing in
return. Just say hello from time to
time. All right, guys. Peace out.